Every single year, there are over 130 million babies being born across the world. With this number growing every year at an exponential rate, we are seeing more and more studies focusing on ways to make future generations increasingly developed. In connection to our course, Introduction to Cognitive Science, the first portion of my paper will focus on published studies that correlate to the reduction or promotion of an activity to result in an improvement for the learning and development skills of children. These methods will primarily focus on young children, between 1 year to 5 years of age. I will first provide a brief summary and introduction to the study, discuss how the study was conducted, explain what the data depicted, and how it connects to the child development theories covered in our course.

Study 1 : The Positive Effects of Parent Engagement with Toddlers
In a study conducted by the American Economic Review, the researchers identified a connection between the first five years in a child’s life to their future success. As such, for children coming from a background of poverty, they begin to “accumulate developmental deficits from a very early age”.  However, research shows that outside intervention for children in these situations can help them thrive developmentally. Attanasio – the lead researcher – ran an eighteen-month long study in three semi-urban regions of central Columbia focusing on early childhood intervention for children between 1 – 2 years of age. He then evaluated the results through a cluster randomized controlled trial.  Attanasio’s program was comprised of two components. The first component was a psychosocial stimulation, which was adapted from Grantham-McGregor’s study where he used a Jamaican home visiting model.  The second component was micronutrient supplementation.
Attanasio’s study was conducted through the help of local women involved in the Colombian Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) Program. This social welfare program targeted the poorest 20% within Colombia’s population and focused on stimulating child development.  These women were also known as “Madre Líderes (MLs)” and were chosen by the CCT beneficiaries.  Madre Líderes often represented a trusted and proactive person within the community. These women helped implement the welfare program by teaching parenting curriculum that focused on “… encouraging mothers to teach their children through daily routines and activities”.  This parenting curriculum taught mothers new ways to interact with their children through the usage of daily chores and play activities as well as ways to reuse discarded objects as toys. Furthermore, these local women completed weekly home visits to the subjects and monitored any changes. 
Before conducting the study, the researchers estimated the effects of parental investment into their children. Additionally, they analyzed how an intervention in a toddler’s early childhood through a change in parental choices would impact their development.  Next, they gathered baselines for the study – focusing on “… child skills, maternal skills, and quality time investments”.  Using these baselines and the data collected through the local women affiliated with CCT, the researchers were able to determine if an increased level of parental investment in toddlers led to a growth in a child’s skills and development. After 18 months of intervention, the researchers measured the development of children who were included in the study and compared their results to those without intervention through “a combination of maternal assessments, questionnaires, and psychological scales”.  The final data supported the initial hypothesis, showing that children who received intervention had more developed cognitive and socio-emotional skills.  Overall, this study highlighted that an improvement in parental behavior – regardless of additional resources being provided to the families – can lead to improved skills among children.
In connection to our chapter on learning in development, I believe that this study exhibits some of Lev Vygotsky’s theory regarding the learning and development of humans. Vygotsky argues that the development of a child occurs within society and culture. As shown in this study, children who receive a higher level of parental investment have more developed skills. For toddlers, their engagement within society can be – and not limited to – inclusive of their parents, grandparents, teachers, and community leaders. By having meaningful exposure to some level of society allows children to become further developed.

Study 2 : The Negative Effects of Screen Time on the Development of Toddlers
Beginning in August 2017, John Hutton, Jonathan Dudley, and Tzipi Horowitz-Kraus conducted a study to determine the effects of screen usage with the brain for children between five years to eight years of age. This study was based off the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), which recommended “limited screen-based media use citing cognitive-behavioral risks”.  These risks included language delay, poor sleep, impaired executive function and general cognition.  The study included 69 pairs of children and parents who were deduced as ‘healthy’ by the following criteria: no history of neurodevelopmental disorder resulting in the risk of language delays and a minimum of 36 weeks’ gestation. All the participants lived in English-speaking households and were primarily from the middle or upper class. Moreover, the children in the study were not enrolled in school yet or were independent reader – which allowed this study to show the influence of screen time to the emerging literacy of a toddler. This study concluded in November of 2018. 
	In order to monitor the effects of screen time for the participants, each child underwent a scanning session during each meeting and the parent completed a ScreenQ survey. The child’s scanning included four BOLD functional MRI sequences and a DTI. Between each scan, the child was given a short two-minute break and they were “allowed to watch a video of their choice during DTI”.  These scans allowed the researchers to monitor the “degree of myelination of the neurons” by looking at myelin, the fatty substance surrounding nerve cells.  Thicker layers of myelin further insulates the nerve cells, allowing the cells to signal in a more efficient manner. ScreenQ survey was created to reflect the standards of the American Academy of Pediatrics with a scoring range from 0 to 26 points.  Moreover, the ScreenQ score reflects the child’s access to screens, how frequently screens are used, what content is being viewed, and whether the viewing is being done as an interactivity or individually.  Higher points reflect a greater usage of screens in comparison to the AAP’s recommendations, while a score of 0 represented a perfect compliance to the AAP’s guidelines.
	From the results, Hutton found a correlation between the thickness of myelin and the ScreenQ scores. Those with higher levels had a thinner layer of myelin. These results were also reflected in the children’s behavior – where those with “higher screen exposure had poorer expressive language and did worse on tests of language processing speed”.  Hutton emphasizes that it’s not that screens and technology are necessarily a bad thing – it’s the age that they are introduced can be more detrimental to one’s development. From these results, Hutton argues that further studies are necessary to identify the long-term developmental risks if children continue to have a greater exposure of screen time than recommended by the AAP. 
	Similarly to the previous study, I believe that Dr. Hutton’s research can also be tied to Vygotsky’s theory. The impact of significant usage of screen time for children between the ages of 3 to 5 years shows that human interaction cannot be substituted for virtual interactions without impacting their development. As Vygotsky argues, the development of a child occurs through society and culture. However, I would adapt this theory to the modernization of today’s society and point out that the technological culture of the world can be harmful to a child’s development – as shown in this study. 

Study 3 : The Impact of Positive Parenting for Children
Beginning in October 1999, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) conducted the Legacy for Children study alongside RTI International, UCLA, and University of Miami. This study was developed because outside research that showed that children with a background of poverty have a higher risk of having poor developmental skills. The Legacy for Children study focused on whether an intervention that “promoted parent-child interaction, parental responsibility, parental commitment of time and energy, and sense of community results in better developmental outcomes for low-income children.”  This study was designed to be adaptable to the communities where intervention was occurring. Legacy was a very extensive study, comprised of a pilot and main study phase. Additionally, this study was conducted in parallel at two different study sites – one in Miami and the other in Los Angeles. At the Miami location, the interventions began at the selected child’s birth and lasted until they were five years old. However, at the Los Angeles site, interventions began at the child’s birth and only lasted until they were three years old. Some of the criteria for the participants included English speaking and 18 years or older. In total, there were 720 families that participated in this study. The philosophy being the Legacy program was that parents can still maintain a positive influence on their children’s development, regardless of any outside factors. Additionally, it was built on the notion that the quality of the relationships is more important than the parenting practice being used.  Some of the goals for the Legacy program were to promote the mother’s investment in energy towards the child, support mother’s and help them understand the behavior and emotions of children, and create a sense of community among mothers. The study concluded in February 2013, lasting nearly thirteen years.
	During the Legacy program, mothers underwent curricula that were repeated over the years throughout the study. These curricula targeted health, literacy, social and emotional skills, behavior guidance and limit setting, and parent-focused issues.  The Miami curriculum included weekly parenting group meetings that lasted for 1.5 hours year-round. These participants only had a few breaks throughout the year for holidays. On the other hand, the Los Angeles curriculum had these group meetings last for 2 hours every week for 10 weeks. After these 10 weeks, the participants had a 4 to 6-week break where the researchers conducted home visits. For each session at the Miami site, the meetings were split between discussion time for mothers and mother-child interaction.  However, at the Los Angeles site every meeting alternated between discussion time for mothers and mother-child interactions. After the mother-only meetings, the mothers planned additional activities to build a sense of community among themselves. In occasions where the usual, informative sessions do not take place, the “group sessions are supplemented by home visits or one-on-one meetings”.  
	Overall, this study showed that the Legacy for Children program improved the overall well-being of children in poverty. To monitor the results, the children were “evaluated on their language and thinking ability, behavior, social skills, and physical health”.  Some supporting data from the Miami site includes that at age 2, only 36% of mothers who participated in Legacy reported behavioral concerns compared to 53% of mothers who did not participate. Moreover, mothers with a child between the age of 2 to 5 tears were 1.8 times more likely to report behavioral concerns.  At the Los Angeles site, when Legacy children were 5 years old, only 27% were believed to have symptoms of ADHD compared to 42% of non-Legacy children.  As such, this study emphasized the importance of a child’s first few years for their health and development. By investing more time and energy into children at an early age, the children may be more developed and healthier overall. 
	The Legacy study connects to Lev Vygotsky’s emphasis on interpersonal contact. Vygotsky argued that skills and abilities are manifested in an interpersonal context, while internalization comes later. Through the Legacy study, the curriculum emphasizes the importance of meaningful interactions between mother and child. In the interpersonal context of mother and child, the child is able to further develop their skills. By the Legacy researchers teaching these mothers how to conduct these meaningful interactions and to emphasize the importance of investing time into their children through one-on-one sessions, they are enhancing the interpersonal context between mother and child. Moreover, by the study successfully depicting that the curriculum and sessions decreased behavioral concerns for the participating children, the Legacy program supports Lev Vygotsky’s theory for child development.

Conclusion
From these studies, it is evident that it is important for young children to have meaningful human interaction with a parenting figure. In both the first and third study, the researchers analyze the effects of positive parent engagement with children between the ages of 1 year to 5 years old in regions of poverty. Both these studies depicted a difference in cognitive skills between children involved in the program and those who were not participants. Additionally, the second study – which focused on the effects of screen time on toddlers – reinforced this notion where children who spent a greater amount of time on screens had a harder time processing information quickly and expressing themselves. In relation to our Learning and Development topic, these studies relate back to Lev Vygotsky’s theories surrounding child development. His focus on the importance of child interaction with other humans to further develop is reemphasized in the studies I researched. 
